#summary This page describes remarkable changes introduced in the different releases.
----
= Version 1.7 (08 Oct 2010) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.7.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * Implemented issue 6: Added new '--purge' command line option which deletes everything within directories containing placeholders -- except the placeholder files themselves.
 * Help text now is formatted dynamically according to the console's windows size.
----
= Version 1.6.1 (16 Feb 2010) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.6.1.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * Fixed issue 4: Another problem with symlinks.
 * Minor performance optimization.
----
= Version 1.6 (04 Feb 2010) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.6.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * Added new option '--follow-symlinks' which allows to make MarkEmptyDirs follow symbolic links to directories or not.<br>_(Currently, symbolic links are only supported on unixoide file systems.)_
 * Fixed issue 3: Directory trees with symlinks are not processed properly.
 * Fixed an issue with case-insensitive filesystems and placeholder filenames.
----
= Version 1.5 (18 Aug 2009) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.5.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * Added new 'placeholder' variable which evaluates to the placeholder's file name/path.
 * Added new 'dir' variable which evaluates to the directory specified on command line, or to the current directory of the placeholder file.
 * Added new 'separator' variable which evaluates to the operating system specific directory, path, or volume separator character.
 * Added two new options '--create-hook' and '--delete-hook' which can be used to hook in command line scripts to be executed as soon as a placeholder file is created or deleted.
 * Improved performance.
 * Improved error handling.
 * Added more unit tests for quality assurance.
 * Removed '--dry' alias for '--dry-run' option (for simplicity).
 * Improved help message output.
 * Bugfix: The set of default excluded directories now contains 'CVS' instead of '.cvs'.
----
= Version 1.4 (07 Aug 2009) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.4.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * A new command line option was added that allows you to switch variable substitution within placeholder files on or off.
 * Placeholder files now are created with the system's default encoding (instead of ASCII encoding).
 * Several unit tests were added for quality assurance.
 * Some minor improvements regarding error handling were added.
----
= Version 1.3 (31 Jul 2009) [http://markemptydirs.googlecode.com/files/MarkEmptyDirs_V1.3.zip download] =
== Changes ==
 * This release adds a feature that allows you to specify a template file for placeholders.
 * It adds a feature that allows you to create placeholders with GUIDs, datetime, environment variables, and more.
 * It has improved readability of help messages for template variables.
 * Some bugfixes.
